---
title: The Asset Manager's Portfolio
subtitle: Portfolio
layout: default
modal-id: 2
date: 2018-12-08
img: Green-Financing.jpg
thumbnail: Green-Financing.jpg
alt: image-alt
project-date: December 2018
client: EPFL - ADA Course
category: Assets
description: Financial asset is a non-physical asset whose value is derived from a contractual claim, such as bank deposits, bonds, and stocks. Financial assets are usually more liquid than other tangible assets, such as commodities or real estate, and may be traded on financial markets

---

# Assets
According to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), a financial asset can be:

Cash or cash equivalent,
Equity instruments of another entity,
Contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from another entity or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another entity under conditions that are potentially favourable to the entity,
A contract that will or may be settled in the entity's own equity instruments and is either a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to receive a variable number of the entity's own equity instruments, or a derivative that will or may be settled other than by exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of the entity's own equity instruments.

## Research Questions
- What are the most popular “ethical” or “unethical” investments held by asset managers?
- Was there a transition toward investing more into social good then into other projects? If yes, when did it happen? 


## The Dataset 

## Libraries & Methods 

#### Choices Mades 

## Results 

#### Popularity of High Social Impact Stocks

<iframe width="900" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~mike.jiao/12.embed"></iframe>

The heatmap shows the most and least popular “ethical” investments held by asset managers. It shows the number of investors in 2017 for each stock that scored within the top 10% of Just Capital Social Impact stocks, where stocks scoring in the top 10% of Just Capital Social Impact scores are labeled “ethical”. 
Said slightly differently, the heatmap displays the social impact (scored by Just Capital) of each stock within the top 10% of Just Capital Social Impact Scores, as well as the number of large institutional investors (with at least 100M in US 13F type securities) that own that stock. 
More popular stocks are represented by lighter colours, whereas less popular stocks are represented with darker colours. 
Although the top 10% of Just Capital Social Impact Scores corresponds to 87 stocks, only 43 stocks are shown in this heatmap. This is because half of these stocks are not held by any large asset manager investor. 
Notice that: 
- Technology companies, as an industry category, are the most popular “ethical” investments held by asset managers. A large number of stocks shown in this plot represent technology companies, including Apple (APPL) with a social impact score of 59.97005 and 1181 large asset manager investors, and Microsoft (MSFT) with a social impact score of 68.55428 and 948 large asset manager investors. 
- Blue Chip stocks such as Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) with a social impact score of 59.94658 and 833 large asset manager investors, and Nike (NKE) also appear. 
- Even with a range of stock social impact scores from 53 to 70, few stocks have scores higher than 63

#### Popularity of Low Social Impact Stocks
The heatmap shows the most and least popular “unethical” investments held by asset managers. Correspond to bottom 10% of Just Capital Social Impact Scores. 
Notice that: 
- Large asset manager investors in general hold far fewer stocks in this category
	- each stock has a lower number of investors
	- there are also less stocks displayed compared to the top ethical stocks
- Many stocks (80%) in the bottom 10% of Just Capital Social Impact Scores are not held by any large asset manager investors
- Interesting to find Tesla (TSLA) with a score of 45.05744 and 66 large asset manager investors

#### Investor Social Impact in 2013 vs 2017

<iframe width="900" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~mike.jiao/25.embed"></iframe>

The Scatterplot displays how the social impact of investor portfolios has changed from 2013 to 2017. The graph has 5 layers/traces that can be optionally displayed or removed from the plot by clicking the respective item in the Legend. 
These layers in order from top to bottom correspond with 1) All 2017 Investor Portfolio Social Impact Scores, 2) 2017 
Investor Portfolio Social Impact Scores for the top 10% of Investors by Portfolio Social Impact Score from 2013, 3) 2017 
Investor Portfolio Social Impact Scores for the bottom 10% of Investors by Portfolio Social Impact Score from 2013, 4) 2013 Investor Portfolio Social Impact Scores for the top 10% of Investors by Portfolio Social Impact Score in 2017, and 5) 2013 Investor Portfolio Social Impact Scores for the bottom 10% of Investors by Portfolio Social Impact Score in 2017.
Using these different layers, you can see how the Social Impact of the best and worst Social Impact Investors has changed, or not changed between 2013 and 2017. 

It seems like while a small minority of investors have adopted specialized strategies towards increasing social impact, most have not decided that predominantly social impact oriented portfolios related to successful investment returns. There does not seem to be an overall transition towards social impact investing. Although we can definitely see that the the largest, most successful investors are not among the worst at investing for social impact, this may be due to for example owning larger numbers of successful technology company stocks such as Apple and Microsoft that also tend to have produced incredibly high financial returns, instead of deliberate efforts to adopt investment portfolios that are more socially impactful. 



## Discussion 

## Conclusion