---
title: The Asset Manager's Portfolio
subtitle: Portfolio
layout: default
modal-id: 2
date: 2018-12-14
img: stock.jpg
thumbnail: stock.png
alt: image-alt
project-date: December 2018
client: EPFL - ADA Course
category: Assets
description: Financial asset is a non-physical asset whose value is derived from a contractual claim, such as bank deposits, bonds, and stocks. Financial assets are usually more liquid than other tangible assets, such as commodities or real estate, and may be traded on financial markets

---

# Introduction & Definitions 

According to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), a **financial asset** can be:
- Cash or cash equivalent,
- Equity instruments of another entity,
- Contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from another entity or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another entity under conditions that are potentially favourable to the entity,
- A contract that will or may be settled in the entity's own equity instruments and is either a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to receive a variable number of the entity's own equity instruments, or a derivative that will or may be settled other than by exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of the entity's own equity instruments.

**Used Dataset:** [SEC asset manager portfolios](https://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/browse-edgar?company=&CIK=&type=13F&owner=include&count=40&action=getcurrent)

## Research Questions
- What are the most popular “ethical” or “unethical” investments held by asset managers?

## Results 

#### Popularity of High Social Impact Stocks
<iframe width="900" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~mike.jiao/12.embed"></iframe>

The heatmap shows the most and least popular “ethical” investments held by asset managers. It shows the number of investors in 2017 for each stock that scored within the top 10% of Just Capital Social Impact stocks, where stocks scoring in the top 10% of Just Capital Social Impact scores are labeled “ethical”. 
Said slightly differently, the heatmap displays the social impact (scored by Just Capital) of each stock within the top 10% of Just Capital Social Impact Scores, as well as the number of large institutional investors (with at least 100M in US 13F type securities) that own that stock. 
More popular stocks are represented by lighter colours, whereas less popular stocks are represented with darker colours. 
Although the top 10% of Just Capital Social Impact Scores corresponds to 87 stocks, only 43 stocks are shown in this heatmap. This is because half of these stocks are not held by any large asset manager investor.


#### Popularity of Low Social Impact Stocks
<iframe width="900" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~mike.jiao/14.embed"></iframe>

The heatmap follows an identical format to the previous heatmap, and shows the most and least popular “unethical” investments held by asset managers. These stocks correspond to bottom 10% of Just Capital Social Impact Scores. 

## Discussion 

### High Impact Stock Popularity Observations
- Technology companies, as an industry category, are the most popular “ethical” investments held by asset managers. A large number of stocks shown in this plot represent technology companies, including Apple (APPL) with a social impact score of 59.97005 and 1181 large asset manager investors, and Microsoft (MSFT) with a social impact score of 68.55428 and 948 large asset manager investors. 
- Blue Chip stocks (stocks with a history of reliable returns that are highly trusted by the larger investment industry) such as Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) with a social impact score of 59.94658 and 833 large asset manager investors, and Nike (NKE) also appear. 
- Even with a range of stock social impact scores from 53 to 70, few stocks have scores higher than 63.

### Low Impact Stock Popularity Observations
- Companies that employ large, less educated labour forces are the most popular "unethical" investments held by asset managers. A large number of stocks show in this plot represent manufacturing and retail companies, including Tesla (TSLA) with a score of 45.05744 and 66 large asset manager investors, Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company (GT) with a score of 45.96831 and 15 large asset manager investors, and TJX Companies (TJX) with a score of 44.58723 and 67 large asset manager investors.
- Blue Chip stocks (stocks with a history of reliable returns that are highly trusted by the larger investment industry) such as Sourthern Co (SO) with a social impact score of 44.58723 and 32 large asset manager investors, and Stryker Corporation (SYK) also appear. 
- Large asset manager investors in general hold far fewer stocks in this category
	- Each stock has a lower number of investors
	- There are also less stocks displayed compared to the top ethical stocks
- Many stocks (80%) in the bottom 10% of Just Capital Social Impact Scores are not held by any large asset manager investors

## Conclusion

The most popular "ethical" investments are technology companies, with the most popular "unethical" investments being companies that employ large, uneducated labour forces such as manufacturing and retail companies. Blue Chip stocks also appear widely in both high and low impact stock lists.
